crested black macaques like to live in
extraordinarily large groups sometimes
numbering over a hundred but what sets
them apart is their character something
that's intimately connected to their
home
crested black macaques live only in
northern Sulawesi in rich forests that
sit directly in the path of the monsoon
torrential rains batter the forest for
months on end
but it's thanks that these monsoon rains
that this baby will develop behaviors
which more than other monkeys we might
recognize in ourselves but first the
youngsters have a lot to learn
starting with the monkey basics like
perfecting their climbing techniques but
most important for the crested black
macaque is to learn their code of
etiquette lip smacking is a request for
a hug showing a desire to be friends
blowing kisses and sharing cuddles is
not only reserved for close family
anyone in the troop can join in they are
amongst the most affectionate monkeys on
the planet
one reason is that with the coming of
each monsoon the forest presents a
banquet
over a hundred varieties of fruit
there is more than enough to go round so
much that they don't need to fight over
it instead they put their energy into
the good things in life
friendships and exploring their forest
home a discovery draws them all close
a tiny casualty on the forest floor
sometimes they're sensitive behavior can
seem touchingly human
the monkeys character is a result of the
riches that the monsoon brings life with
abundant food
you